# Google Analytics 4 integration plugin

xx

This Plugin to add GA4 to the dashboard and some custom components. This plugin uses the new API's:

### Google Analytics Admin API (GA4):

https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/config/admin/v1

### Google Analytics Data API (GA4):

https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/reporting/data/v1

## Configuration

### Step 1 - Create a client ID

The settings and instructions for authorizing Google have been drastically simplified. For existing accounts, you will need to generate a new key file using these steps:

1. Log in to the [Google Developers Console](https://console.developers.google.com/home/dashboard) and do a search for `Service accounts` in the search box at the top.
2. If you need to create a new `Service Account`, click on the `Create Service Account` at the top and then add a `name` and click on `Create`, you can skip setting up the `description` and `roles`.
3. You should see an account in the **Service Accounts** list and under the `Actions` column is a hamburger menu. Open this hamburger menu and select `Create key`.
4. Choose the `Key type` of `JSON`.
5. Download the file to your computer and upload it to the October back-end settings form.

### Step 2 - Configure Google Analytics

1. In a new tab, navigate to the main [Google Analytics site](https://www.google.com/analytics/web/) and select the property you want to track.

1. Click the **Admin** main menu tab at the top. Select the **Property > User Management** menu item.

1. *Paste the email address from the clipboard* in to the field **Add permissions for** and make sure the permission is set to **Read & Analyse**. Click **Add**.

1. Click the **Admin** main menu tab again and select **View > View Settings** from the menu. *Copy to your clipboard* the Profile ID (should be a number).

### Configure October back-end area

1. Open your October back-end administration area and open **Settings > Google Analytics**.

1. *Paste the Account ID from the clipboard* in to the field **Analytics View/Profile ID number**.

1. Upload the previously downloaded `.json` private key file to the **Private key** field.

1. Specify the **Tracking ID** (eg `UA-12312312-3`) and **Domain name** values if you are going to use the plugin's built-in tracking component. To find this code, select **Admin > Property > Property Settings** from the Google Analytics menu.

1. If Tracking is not working initially, enter the value `auto` for the **Domain name** field. This is a fix for newborn Google Analytics accounts.

## Adding the tracking code

Using the tracking code provided by the plugin is optional - the reporting part does not depend on whether you track your traffic with the built-in tracker or with a custom code generated by Google Analytics tools. 

To add the plugin's tracking code to your website just drop the Google Analytics Tracker component to your CMS layout and add this code to the layout code after the page tag:

```php
{% page %}
{% component 'googleTracker' %}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Fix for Windows / XAMPP

**cURL error 60: SSL certificate problem: unable to get local issuer certificate**

1. Follow this link: http://curl.haxx.se/ca/cacert.pem and save it in a file called `cacert.pem`.

1. Open your `php.ini` file insert or edit the following line: 
    ```
    curl.cainfo = "[pathtothisfile]\cacert.pem"
    ```

1. Restart Apache
